README.md, before:

# Hyper-Trading Automation

This project implements a simplified version of the trading automation system described in the accompanying design document.

## Features

- Fetch OHLCV price data from cryptocurrency exchanges using [CCXT](https://github.com/ccxt/ccxt) or Yahoo Finance via [yfinance](https://github.com/ranaroussi/yfinance).
- Compute technical indicators such as moving averages, EMA, SuperTrend, RSI, MACD and Bollinger Bands.
- Basic sentiment analysis from NewsAPI headlines using VADER.
- Macro indicators from Yahoo Finance and FRED (DXY, interest rates, liquidity).
- Enhanced strategy uses EMA crossovers, SuperTrend direction, RSI and Bollinger Band confirmation with optional sentiment filter for more reliable signals.
- Optional machine learning model using logistic regression to predict price direction. Includes a helper to cross-validate accuracy.
- Automatic position sizing based on account balance and risk percentage.
- MetaTrader5 Expert Advisor reads generated signals and executes orders with stop-loss and take-profit.
- Basic testing suite and GitHub Actions workflow.

### Macro data

Providing a FRED API key allows the bot to fetch the US Dollar Index, federal
funds rate and M2 money stock. These values are combined into a macroeconomic
score that influences trading signals.

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Run tests:

```bash
pytest -v
```
3. Example backtest with performance metrics:

```bash
python tests/backtest.py
```

The MetaTrader5 Expert Advisor code is located in `hypertrader/execution/hypertrader.mq5`. Compile and run this EA in the MT5 terminal. It expects a `signal.json` file generated by your Python strategy.

### Running the autonomous bot

The `hypertrader.bot` module fetches data from Yahoo Finance, optionally gathers news sentiment, and writes a trading signal with calculated position size to `signal.json`:

 ```bash
 python -m hypertrader.bot BTC-USD --account_balance 10000 --risk_percent 2 \
     --fred_api_key YOUR_FRED_KEY
    --model_path trained_model.pkl

 ```

Alternatively set the `FRED_API_KEY` environment variable so the bot can
retrieve macroeconomic series without specifying the flag each run.

### Machine learning strategy

You can optionally train a simple logistic regression model on historical data.
The helper functions in `hypertrader.strategies.ml_strategy` make this easy:

```python
from hypertrader.strategies.ml_strategy import train_model, ml_signal
from hypertrader.data.fetch_data import fetch_yahoo_ohlcv

data = fetch_yahoo_ohlcv("BTC-USD", lookback="60d")
model = train_model(data)
sig = ml_signal(model, data)
print(sig)
model.to_pickle("trained_model.pkl")

# Evaluate accuracy using cross validation
from hypertrader.strategies.ml_strategy import cross_validate_model
print("CV", cross_validate_model(data))
The bot can load this model to confirm indicator-based signals for added
confidence.

Run the bot with the `--model_path` option to enable this behaviour:

```bash
python -m hypertrader.bot BTC-USD --model_path trained_model.pkl
```

Commit message:

feat: add config, logging, and retry mechanisms

README.md, after:

# Hyper-Trading Automation

This project implements a simplified version of the trading automation system described in the accompanying design document.

## Features

- Fetch OHLCV price data from cryptocurrency exchanges using [CCXT](https://github.com/ccxt/ccxt) or Yahoo Finance via [yfinance](https://github.com/ranaroussi/yfinance).
- Compute technical indicators such as moving averages, EMA, SuperTrend, RSI, MACD and Bollinger Bands.
- Basic sentiment analysis from NewsAPI headlines using VADER.
- Macro indicators from Yahoo Finance and FRED (DXY, interest rates, liquidity).
- Enhanced strategy uses EMA crossovers, SuperTrend direction, RSI and Bollinger Band confirmation with optional sentiment filter for more reliable signals.
- Optional machine learning model using logistic regression to predict price direction. Includes a helper to cross-validate accuracy.
- Automatic position sizing based on account balance and risk percentage.
- MetaTrader5 Expert Advisor reads generated signals and executes orders with stop-loss and take-profit.
- Basic testing suite and GitHub Actions workflow.

### Macro data

Providing a FRED API key allows the bot to fetch the US Dollar Index, federal
funds rate and M2 money stock. These values are combined into a macroeconomic
score that influences trading signals.

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Configuration

Runtime options such as API keys, default trading symbol and risk parameters
are stored in `config.yaml`. Edit this file to suit your environment or pass a
custom path to the bot using `--config`.

2. Run tests:

```bash
pytest -v
```
3. Example backtest with performance metrics:

```bash
python tests/backtest.py
```

The MetaTrader5 Expert Advisor code is located in `hypertrader/execution/hypertrader.mq5`. Compile and run this EA in the MT5 terminal. It expects a `signal.json` file generated by your Python strategy.

### Running the autonomous bot

The `hypertrader.bot` module fetches data from Yahoo Finance, optionally gathers news sentiment, and writes a trading signal with calculated position size to `signal.json`:

 ```bash
 python -m hypertrader.bot BTC-USD --account_balance 10000 --risk_percent 2 \
     --fred_api_key YOUR_FRED_KEY \
     --model_path trained_model.pkl

# alternatively load options from config.yaml
python -m hypertrader.bot --config config.yaml

 ```

Alternatively set the `FRED_API_KEY` environment variable so the bot can
retrieve macroeconomic series without specifying the flag each run.

### Logging

The bot emits structured JSON logs with latency and other metrics. Redirect
stdout to a file or log processor to monitor live trading performance.

### Machine learning strategy

You can optionally train a simple logistic regression model on historical data.
The helper functions in `hypertrader.strategies.ml_strategy` make this easy:

```python
from hypertrader.strategies.ml_strategy import train_model, ml_signal
from hypertrader.data.fetch_data import fetch_yahoo_ohlcv

data = fetch_yahoo_ohlcv("BTC-USD", lookback="60d")
model = train_model(data)
sig = ml_signal(model, data)
print(sig)
model.to_pickle("trained_model.pkl")

# Evaluate accuracy using cross validation
from hypertrader.strategies.ml_strategy import cross_validate_model
print("CV", cross_validate_model(data))
The bot can load this model to confirm indicator-based signals for added
confidence.

Run the bot with the `--model_path` option to enable this behaviour:

```bash
python -m hypertrader.bot BTC-USD --model_path trained_model.pkl
```
